---
aliases: 術 nab METHOD
pinyin: shù
word: 術
syn-func: nab
sem-feat: mathematical term
total: 1
concept: METHOD 
---
# [[術]] *[[shù]]*  [[uuid-76be1df4-3d73-4e5f-bbc2-729542645bc8|nab]] [[uuid-b110bae1-02d5-4c66-ad13-7c04b3ee3ad9|mathematical term]] [[METHOD]]
CHEMLA 2003: mathematical procedure, a term which in Song-Yuan mathematical texts came to be replaced by 法 "method". The expression 算術 "mathematical procedure" makes explicit how 術 alone is understood throughout JZ. 術曰 regularly specifies a well-defined mathematical procedure. Some of these procedures have technical terms referring to them. E.g. 今有術 refers to a general procedure involving multiplication first, and then division, and while the order of these operations makes no difference regarding the mathematical results, the 術 definitely prescribes one order rather than the other.There are contexts in which 術 are specified with reference to the elements in the mathematical problems themselves which are in fact not repeated in the technical description of the 術. Thus, in such cases, the discourse describing these procedures 術 is embedded in the wider discourse of the text. They do not, then constitute instructions that may be properly understood outside the context in which they are proposed.On the other hand, certain procedures are in fact introduced and discussed outside the context of any given problem (as is the case for 今有術 ). These latter instances show that Chinese mathematicians had an interest in mathematical procedures as such, and not only in the pragmatic context of specific problem solution.JZ, Liu Hui's Preface, ed. Guo p. 178 因木望山之術 "the procedure relating to the problem of looking up a mountain relying on a tree". 於徽術 refers primarily to a procedure as defined by the commentator Liu Hui. However, there are instances where the reference is not to the procedure as such but to the numerical constants arrived at by Liu Hui. (It is worth noting how Liu Hui proudly personalises his dicourse about these constants.)JZ 5.11 為術之意 "the idea behind making the procedure" is a current phrase which indicates that procedures have two separate aspects: 1. they must predictably yield correct results; 2. they must realise an underlying mathematical 意 "idea, reasoning". Thus traditional Chinese mathematics were NOT satisfied when an opaque procedure appeared to yield the correct mathematical results, but routinely required the procedure itself to be a realisation of an underlying mathematical idea one had when constructing ( 為 ) the procedure.
 - [[九章算術注]] 方**術**術曰 / [HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR3f0032_tls_001-p0038a-s1-seg1a)