---
aliases: 三十二大人相 NPab FEATURE
pinyin: sān shí èr dà rén rén
word: 三十二大人相
syn-func: NPab
sem-feat: buddhist
total: 1
concept: FEATURE 
---
# [[三十二大人相]] *[[sān shí èr dà rén rén]]*  [[uuid-db0698e7-db2f-4ee3-9a20-0c2b2e0cebf0|NPab]] [[uuid-2e7204ae-4771-435b-82ff-310068296b6d|buddhist]] [[FEATURE]]
BUDDH: skr. dvātiṃśadvaralakṣana; this refers to the thirty-two marks of a Buddha. According to SOOTHILL: 60 those marks are: "Level feet; thousand spoke wheel sign on feet, long slender fingers, pliant hands and feet; toes and fingers finely webbed, full-sized heels; arched insteps; thighs like a royal stag; hands reaching below the knees; well-retracted male organ; height and stretch of arms equal; every hair-root dark coloured; body hair graceful and curly; golden-hued body; a 10 foot-halo around him; soft smooth skin; the qī chù 七處, i.e. two soles, two palms, two shoulders, and crown well rounded, below the armpits well-filled; lion-shaped body; erect, full shoulders; forty teeth; teeth white even and close; the four canine teeth pure white; lion jawed; saliva improving the taste of all food; tongue long and broad; voice deep and resonant; eyes deep blue; eyelashes like a royal bull; a white ūrṇā or curl between the eyebrows emitting light, an uṣṇiṣa or fleshy protuberance on the crown." (The sources of Soothill's interpretation are: Sān-āng fǎ shù 三藏法數, fasc. 48; DAZHI DULUN 大智度論, fasc. 4; NIRVANA, fasc. 28; MIDDLE AGAMA and the Sān-shí-èr xiāng jīng 三十二相經. Different lists appear in Wúliàng yì jīng 無量意經 and Āhánjīng 阿含經, fasc. 11.)
 - [[祖堂集]] 相好具足。 / and he was fully equipped with the [thirty two major] marks and [eighty minor] auspicious [signs]."235[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_001-1018a.20)