---
aliases: 調達 NPpr DISCIPLES OF BUDDHA
pinyin: tiáo dá
word: 調達
syn-func: NPpr
sem-feat: abbreviation
total: 1
concept: DISCIPLES OF BUDDHA 
---
# [[調達]] *[[tiáo dá]]*  [[uuid-c43c0bab-2810-42a4-a6be-e4641d9b6632|NPpr]] [[uuid-5c73041e-f2fb-4172-a2fa-3734bfbd32af|abbreviation]] [[DISCIPLES OF BUDDHA]]
BUDDH: skr. Devadatta, the cousin of Buddha (phonetic transcriptions include Típódáduō 提婆達多 (NIRVANA(B), ZAAHANJING(B), YINGUOJING, FOBEN XINGJI JING, etc.; this is the most frequent transcription!), Típódádōu 提婆達兜 (ZENGYI AHAN JING); Típó 提婆, Dáduō 達多, etc.). He is an important figure in Buddhist sūtras, supposed to have commited the five cardinal sins and broken the harmony of the sangha. Being the brother of Ananda he engaged in various practices together with Śākyamuni, competing with him. After Śākyamuni had gained enlightenment, Devadatta became his disciple and practiced vigorously for a period of twelve years. Frustrated that he was unable to become enlightenment, he wished to study the attainment of supernatural powers and use them for his own profit. Buddha opposed his plans, whereupon Devadatta separated from Buddha and studied the attainment of supernatural powers. Prince Ādūshì 阿闍世 of the state Mójiētuó 摩揭陀 became his supporter and Devadatta subsequently planned to replace Buddha as leader of the community of monks and nuns. When Buddha did not agree to this, Devadatta proclaimed himself master and managed to win over 500 disciples of Buddha. He based his teaching on 'Five dharmas' (there are different lists of these teachings; see FOGUANG: 4960). The influence on Prince Ādūshì 阿闍世 gradually increased and he could finally convince the prince to get rid of his father and ascend to the throne himself. Devadatta himself was supposed to have tried several times to assassinate Buddha, but without success. When several of his disciples wished to rejoin the followers of Buddha he repented his sins and accepted Buddha as his teacher. However, not able to control his evil impulses, he killed a nun and not long afterwards tried to kill Buddha. Having dipped his ten fingers in poison he grabbed Buddha's feet. However, since Buddha's feet had turned hard as a rock, Devadatta broke his fingers and poisened himself. After his death he fell right into hell. Many scriptures elaborate on the relationship between Devadatta and Śākyamuni. Śākyamuni is described as predicting future Buddhahood for Devadatta (however, only after being submitted to all possible tortures in hell for several kalpas). Devadatta is an extremely important figure in Buddhist scriptures symbolizing the ultimate evil person who nevertheless attracts the compassion of the Buddha and in the end the attainment of enlightenment and Buddhahood is even predicted for him (see e.g. ZAAHANJING 雜阿含經, fasc. 16, 18, 38, 48; MIDDLE AGAMA, fasc. 27; YINBENJING, fasc. 10, 12; XIUXING BENQI JING 修行本起經; QISHI YINGUO JING, fasc. 2; Chūyào jīng 出曜經, fasc. 14, 15, 16, 25; etc.; see FOGUANG: 4960b-4961c).
 - [[祖堂集]] 一名**調達**， / and one was called Devadatta[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_001-1016a.33)