---
aliases: 業 nab ACT
pinyin: yè
word: 業
syn-func: nab
sem-feat: act
total: 6
concept: ACT 
---
# [[業]] *[[yè]]*  [[uuid-76be1df4-3d73-4e5f-bbc2-729542645bc8|nab]] [[uuid-f55cff2f-f0e3-4f08-a89c-5d08fcf3fe89|act]] [[ACT]]
BUDDH: skr. karma; pali kamma (lit. action, deed of karmic significance)This is agency which brings forth 'existence' (yǒu 有 ) and is in turn caused by mental defilements (usually 'craving' (tṛṣṇā) and 'ignorance' (avidyā)); the concept of karma in India predates the emergence of Buddhism, but was somewhat redefined in Buddhism and Śākyamuni was said to have put much emphasis on the law of moral causality which is determined by one's actions; karma is often subdivided in three kind of actions: physical, shēnyè 身業, skr. kāya-karman, PALI kāya-kamma; verbal, kǒuyè 口業, SANSKRIT vāk-karman, PALI vacī-kamma; mental, yìyè 意業, skr. manas-karma, PALI mano-kamma, mental karma is sometims also referred to as 'non-manifest' or 'latent' action (skr. avijñapti, PALI aviññatti, wúbiǎoyè 無表業; another method of classifying karma is according to the nature of the actions, i.e. 'wholesome deeds', shànyè 善業, SANSKRIT kuśala-karman, PALI kusala-kamma; and 'evil deeds', èyè 惡業, skr. pāpa-karman, pali pāpa-kammaFocusing on the destiny after death which are caused by one's actions, karma is divided into fúyè 福業, 'meritorious actions' (skr. puṇya, pali puñña), and demeritorious actions, fēifúyè 非福業, skr. apuṇya, pali apuñña)(Actions which lead to rebirth in the three realms, sānjiè 三界 (including good and bad actions) are referred to as 'defiled actions' yǒulòuyè 有漏業, skr. sāsrava-karman; by contrast there are 'undefiled actions', wúlòuyè 無漏業, skr. anāsrava-karman (often referring to the actions of a Bodhisattva; in the case of Buddha one speaks of fóshì 佛事, 'Buddha-deeds', skr. buddha-kāryaThe concept of karma is further complicated by the question who and what transmigrates, since in Buddhism the existence of an entity surviving death is denied (one of the later approaches to solve thia aporia was the assumption of a 'storehouse-consciousness', ālaya-vijñāna by the Yogācāra School
 - [[賢愚經]] 身口意**業**恒令清淨， / 他的身業、口業和意業永遠保持清純潔淨，[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6b0059_T_001-0354c.62)
 - [[百喻經]] 作眾惡**業**， / and they create all sorts of bad karma;[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6b0066_T_003-0550b.44)
 - [[祖堂集]] 造諸惡**業**亦是幻。 / To create bad karma is as well an illusion.[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_001-1008a.3)
 - [[臨濟錄]] 但能隨緣消舊**業**， / "Just get so you can follow along with circumstances and use up your old karma.[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0053_T_001-0497c.40)
 - [[臨濟錄]] 『若欲作**業**求佛， / 'If you try to create good karma and seek to be a buddha,[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0053_T_001-0497c.46)
 - [[臨濟錄]] 皆是造**業**底人， / such persons are all just creating karma.[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0053_T_001-0502a.64)