---
aliases: 茆草王 NPpr BUDDHIST DEITIES
pinyin: mǎo cǎo wáng
word: 茆草王
syn-func: NPpr
sem-feat: 
total: 1
concept: BUDDHIST DEITIES 
---
# [[茆草王]] *[[mǎo cǎo wáng]]*  [[uuid-c43c0bab-2810-42a4-a6be-e4641d9b6632|NPpr]] [[BUDDHIST DEITIES]]
BUDDH: King Máocǎo (More common is King Máocǎo 茅草. According to the FOBEN he gave up the throne and renounced his home. He attained the five supernatural powers and was therefore called wángxián 王仙 'Royal Immortal'. When he had become old he could not walk anymore and when his disciples went out in order to beg for food they were afraid that Máocǎo could be attacked by wild animals. Therefore they covered him with grass and reeds and hung him high up in a tree. When the disciples had left a hunter happened to come by who mistakenly took him for a big white bird. The hunter shot at him with an arrow and killed him. At the place where his blood touched the ground, two sugar cane plants grew. Through the blaze of the sun these sugar canes split into two parts and gave birth to one boy and to one girl. Because of this the boy was called Gānzhè 甘蔗 ('Sugar Cane'). Since his birth was also conditioned by the light of the sun he was also called Rìzhǒng 日種 ('Sun Clan'). An alternative name was Shànshēng 善生 ('Good birth'). The girl was called Shànxián 善賢 ('Good Virtue'). Gānzhè eventually ascended the throne and took Shànxián as his wife. She gave birth to one son)
 - [[祖堂集]] 名**茆草王**。 / and was called King Mǎocǎo.[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_001-1013a.19)