---
aliases: 菩提達摩 NPpr ZEN PATRIARCHS
pinyin: pú tí dá mó
word: 菩提達摩
syn-func: NPpr
sem-feat: buddhist
total: 5
concept: ZEN PATRIARCHS 
---
# [[菩提達摩]] *[[pú tí dá mó]]*  [[uuid-c43c0bab-2810-42a4-a6be-e4641d9b6632|NPpr]] [[uuid-2e7204ae-4771-435b-82ff-310068296b6d|buddhist]] [[ZEN PATRIARCHS]]
BUDDH: traditionally regarded as the founder of Chinese Chán/Zen Buddhism; skr. Bodhidharma (A number of works are attributed to him. However, there is little known about the life and actual teachings of this monk. For early biographic material see LUOYANG QIELAN JI 洛陽伽籃記, T.51/2092:1000b (tr. in MCRAE 1986: 17 and WANG 1984: 20-21) and XUGAOSENGZHUAN, T.50/2060: 551b-c (tr. in McRae 1986: 17-18). The only work which with some certainty can be attributed to him is the short ERRU SIZING LUN 二入四行論 ('Treatise on Two Entrances and Four Practices'); see YANAGIDA 1969 for an excellent annotated translation into Japanese). In addition there were a number of other works which traditionally had been attributed to Bodhidharma but which are of a later date, e.g. Dámó dàshī wùxìng lùn 達摩大師悟性論 [Treatise on the Nature of Enlightenment by Great Master Bodhidharma], Ānxīn fǎmén 安心法門 [The Dharma Gate of Pacifying the Mind]; Dámó chánshī lùn 達摩禪師論 [Treatise of Chán Master Bodhidharma]; Dámó dàshī wùxìng lùn 達摩大師悟性論 [Bodhidharma's Treatise on the Nature of Enlightenment]; Dámó dà-hī xuèmò lùn 達摩大師血脈論 [Treatise on the Blood Lineage of Bodhidharma]; Juè-guān lùn 絕觀論 [Treatise on the Transcendence of Cognition]. All these works are retrospectively attributed to Bodhidharma in order to firmly establish him as the First Chinese Patriarch. Bodhidharma was established as 'First Chinese Patriarch' in early Chán transmission texts like Fǎrú's 法如 epitaph (ed. in YANAGIDA 1967: 487-489; see also MCRAE 1986: 43-44, 85-86), the CFBJ and the LQSZJ. On Bodhidharma;s role in early Chán Buddhism see also Dumoulin 1951; for critical studies see FAURE 1986B; FAURE 1993: 130-135.The biographic entry on Bodhidharma in ZTJ is based on BLZ, fasc. 7 and 8 (fasc. 7, which must have included the first part of his biography, is not extant any longer).
 - [[祖堂集]] 第二十八祖**菩提達摩**和尚者， / [HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_002-1063a.20)
 - [[祖堂集]] 名**菩提達摩**。 / whose name is Pútídámó (Bodhidharma).[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_002-1066a.14)
 - [[祖堂集]] 能為首者，當**菩提達摩**焉。」 / and the one who is able to be the first (i.e. to be this single master) will be Bodhidharma."[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_002-1070a.37)
 - [[祖堂集]] **菩提達摩**， / Bodhidharma's[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_002-1077a.10)
 - [[祖堂集]] **菩提達摩**來， / When Bodhidharma came[HXWD](https://hxwd.org/textview.html?location=KR6q0002_Yan_007-2101a.7)