---
total: 4
concepts: 
 - "CATEGORY"
 - "FAMILY"
---
# Lexical Entities
- (pinyin::*zhǒng xìng*) [[TLS/Core/Syntactic functions/uuid-a8e89bab-49e1-4426-b230-0ec7887fd8b4|(syn-func::NP)]]  (def::**clan**) (concept::[[FAMILY]])  [((num::3))](https://hxwd.org/concept.html?concept=FAMILY#uuid-c3c3f1bf-c533-41b4-b473-86c15b4928e8) ^uuid-c3c3f1bf-c533-41b4-b473-86c15b4928e8
- (pinyin::*zhǒng xìng*) [[TLS/Core/Syntactic functions/uuid-db0698e7-db2f-4ee3-9a20-0c2b2e0cebf0|(syn-func::NPab)]] [[TLS/Core/Semantic features/uuid-2ef405b2-627b-4f29-940b-848d5428e30e|(sem-feat::social)]]  (def::**(BUDDH:) the (four) castes in Ancient India; skr. gotra (the four castes are usually referred to as sìxìng 四姓, skr. catvāro varṇāḥ; pali cattāra vaṇṇā; alternative terms are xīyù sìxìng 西域四姓, sì zhǒngxìng 四種姓, sì xìngzhǒng 四姓種, sìpǐn rén 四品人. This refers to the four classes/castes in ancient India: (1) the póluómén 婆羅門 caste; skr. Brāhmaṇa; this refers to the highest class comprising priests and scholar-officials. (2) chàdìlì 剎帝利, skr. Kṣtriya, is the second highest caste and refers to land lords (owners). This is the caste of royals (therefore referred to as wángzhǒng 王種 'royal caste'. Members of this caste managed political and military affairs. (3) The third class is referred to as fèishě 吠舍, or píshě(luó) 毘舍(羅); skr. Vaiśya; other terms include jūshì 居士, shāngjià 商賈, tiánjiā 田家, gōngshī 工師. The class refers to peasants, craftsmen, and merchants. (4) shǒutuóluó 首陀羅, skr. Śūdra, also referred to as shūtuóluó 輸陀羅, shǒutuó 首陀, shùdáluó 戍達羅, shùtuoluó 戍陀羅, shāshēng zhǒng 殺生種 ('the caste which kills life'), èzhǒng 惡種 ('the evil caste'). These terms refer to the very lowest caste, including slaves, butchers, etc. This class did not have the right to make offerings or engage in rituals. After death, members of the first three classes were supposed to be reborn as sentient beings whereas members of the fourth class were regarded as being incapable of being reincarnated (therefore the name yīshēng zǔ 一生祖 'one-life class'.)**) (concept::[[CATEGORY]])  [((num::1))](https://hxwd.org/concept.html?concept=CATEGORY#uuid-0d993b00-9cb6-4dc0-a052-3c093e8a6850) ^uuid-0d993b00-9cb6-4dc0-a052-3c093e8a6850